<div align="center">

# RepoPacker

#### A low-tech solution to large files in Git

</div>

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Gotchas](#gotchas)

## The problem

You're working on a project and you find yourself accumulating large files
which are not well-suited for git leading you to exclude from version control.

Months pass, and you find yourself wanting to share your repository including all of
the large files which are now strewn about your repository and hidden from git.

At this point your options are limited to git-lfs (which now requires
a [paid subscription](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-large-files/about-storage-and-bandwidth-usage#bandwidth-quota)
for truly large files) or linking to an external storage container outside of the
repository which will often require refactoring.

## Enter RepoPacker

RepoPacker is a command line tool built to work in harmony
with Git to solve this problem. In a nutshell RepoPacker follows a simple workflow:

1. You specify which files should be tracked by RepoPacker.
2. RepoPacker collects tracked files and packs them into a standard zip file.
3. When sharing the repository, the person downloading your code downloads both the
   repository and the zip file generated by RepoPacker.
4. RepoPacker unpacks the zip file into the locations tracked by RepoPacker in your
   local repository.

_The person downloading your code is left with a local git repository with the large
files in their right place._

## Installation

Installation requires [git](https://git-scm.com/) and [python3.9+](https://www.python.org/).
Once you've installed the required dependencies you can install repopacker via pip:

```bash
pip install repopacker
```

## Usage

### Basic functionality

- **Initialize:** From an existing git repository initialize the RepoPacker system,

  ```bash
  repopacker init
  ```

  This will create file named `.repopacker.json` at the GitHub root
  of your project. It contains some basic config information and will act as
  a storage container for RepoPacker.

- **Add files:** Add any large files / directories which you want tracked by
  RepoPacker:

  ```bash
  repopacker add largefile.txt
  repopacker add dir/
  ```

  This command does two things:

  (1)`largefile.txt` and all the files in `dir`
  will be added into the list of RepoPacker tracked files.

  (2)`largefile.txt` and all the files in `dir`  
   will be added to the `.gitignore`
  for your project (you can disable this behavior by setting
  the `.gitignore` flag in the `.repopacker.json` to false).

  **Note: files tracked by
  RepoPacker _will not_ have their changes tracked.
  All RepoPacker stores is a
  static link to the file.**

- **Pack:** Once you have added all the files you want tracked you
  can create a zip file,

  ```bash
  repopacker pack repopack.zip
  ```

  You should upload this to an accessible location such as [dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com)
  or [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/). Add the link to the `downloadpath` in the `.repopacker.json`.

- **Unpack** Unpack the repository populating directories with large files in their
  original locations,

  ```bash
  repopacker unpack repopack.zip
  ```

### Additional utilities

- **List files:** See all files currently tracked by repopacker:

  ```bash
  repopacker list
  ```

- **Remove files:** If you accidentally add files to RepoPacker that you shouldn't
  have you can remove them:

  ```bash
  repopacker remove largefile.txt
  ```

  This will also remove `largefile.txt` from the `.gitignore` if you have the option
  enabled.

- **Download:** For projects that have setup the download link automatically download
  the zip,

  ```bash
  repopacker downloada repopack.zip
  ```

  **Note this will download a zip file from the internet. Only use this option with
  repositories you can trust.**

- **Clean:** When downloading an updated version of the repopacker.zip, it can be useful
  to clear all prexisting files tracked by RepoPacker:

  ```bash
  repopacker clean
  ```

## Gotchas

- RepoPacker is not directly integrated with Git meaning any operations which update
  the file tree will not be known to RepoPacker. You must remove files these files and re-add
  them using RepoPacker for them to be properly tracked.
